Chapter 2

The problem with schools

My teaching experience in different parts of the world convinced me that something is wrong with english education.
Everywhere I went it was the same situation.
The students were bored, frustrated, stressed and nervous.
Most students even after years of studying English failed to speak the language fluently.
You are not alone because it's a global problem.
One of my students Saeco from Japan described this combination of failure and stress as English drama.
Saeco said that she haited english.
She felt that learning English was boring and stressful and speaking english was even worse.
In fact the thought of speaking to a native speaker immediately made Saeco feel extremely nervous and shy.
Saeco felt she had developed the psychological problem with english and had named it 'English drama'.

A drama is a deep wound or injury.
How said I thought to myself that so many people now think of English as kind of injury or mental {desease}.
Trought out my teaching career I've met many students who had similar feelings about English.
I {discovered} that Saeco was not alone.
Rather English drama is a global epidemic.
The most people feel they must lear to speak english very few seem to enjoy it.
Most who learned the language struggle with the same feelings of nervousness and frustration that Saeco had.
As I encountered this problem more and more I began to look for the root causes.
I realized that before I found a solution I needed to understand the problem.
Just as a doctor must first diagnoste a desease before {treating} it.
Think about it.
What is the cause of all of this {misery} and failure?
Why do so many people fail to speak English effortlesly despite years of study?
What is wrong with english education?
The first and most obvious problem I found with schools was the way in which they teach English.
Most schools everewhere in the world use the grammar translation method.
As the name {implies} the focus of this method is on grammar analisys and the memorisation of translated vocabulary.
This method brakes English in to an endless series grammar formulas to memorise.
Of course, each grammar formula has exceptions and this must be memorise too.
Schools like the grammar translation method because it {appears} to be serious, academic and complex.
The grammar translation method fits the way schools teach most subjects:
with textbooks, lectures, notes, memorisation and tests.
The only problem as you know is that it doesn't work.
In real conversations there simply is no time to think about grammar formulas and their exceptions. (3:11)

The failure rate for this method {therefore} is absolutely horrible.
Despite the failure of most students to speak English fluently schools continued to use this mehod.
This is an epic failure of our education sustem.
{Recently} because students find the grammar translation method so boring
some schools have added communication activities to their {curriculum}.
{Accaisionally} the teacher puts the students in to pairs or groups.
The students then read or repeat dialogs from a textbook.
Sometimes they might answer a few questions from a worksheet.
Of cccourse this activities're unnatural nothing like real English conversation.
{Consequently} the {failure} rate the communication activities is just as bad as grammar translation.
Obviosly the English teaching methods used in schools do not work.
That was easy to see.
I knew it, the students knew it and many teachers knew it too the few will admit it. (4:09)
Howewer, as I continued to investigate the problem with schools.
I found even deeper problems in the education system.
This problems are less obvious but in many ways far more damaging to the students.
I call this problems 'the hidden curriculum'.
Because they are the hidden lessons taught by schools.

The hidden curriculum.
Most schools everywhere in the world share similar hidden curriculum.
One element of this curriculum is student passivity.
In schools students are trained to be passive not active.
They sit in chairs in rows??.
When they're young they're told?? to be quiet and obey the teacher.
As the teacher lectures the students take notes.
Later they're told to memorise this notes and preparetion for a test.
The message is clear.
Learning is a passive activity. (5:09)

You listen to the teacher, you take notes, you memorise the notes.
The problem is that speaking english is not a passice activity.
You must connect with other people, you must constantly ask and answer questions.
You must communicate ideas, emotions and descriptions.
You must be ready for the unexpected.
You must be spontanious.
You must actively interact.
English is not something you pasively study it something you do.
Related to the problem of passivity is the issue of energy.
Sitting for a long time is a low energy activity.
The longer you sit the more your energy drops.
And as your energy drops so does your concentration.
What's worse we know that some learners need physical movement in order to learn effectively.
This people are called 'kinestetic learners'.
The truth is wee are all kinestetic learners to some degree.
Because we all benefit from physical movement.
Schools {stick} us in chairs and drain our energy.
Eventially, an inactive body leads to inactive mind.

The one right answer mentality.
One of the greaters {flows} school education is the idea of one right answer.
One right answer is a powerfull part of the hidden curriculum.
It is result of using text books and tests.
In school you frequently taught that there is one and only one correct answer to a question or a problem.
For example.
You may be ask to choose the correct verb tence on the test.
Or you may be taught proper english {greetings}.
The hidden message is that the teachers way is always right.
Real life and real English is not this way.
For example, sometimes I will tell a story using the present tence.
Even though the events happen in the past.
This is a technique commonly use by native speakers.
However when english learners here this stories many are confused and upset.
They are convinced that the past tence is the right answer.
And the only correct way to tell the story.
Some get quite upset and even argue with me about it.
This students are so convinced that there is only one right answer.
That they will argue with native speakers.
This students have been trained to believe that there is only one correct way to say things in English.
The truth is there always many ways to say same thing.
We can change verb tences in order to change the feeling of the story.
We can use different vocabulary and different phrases.
And we even brake grammar rules all the time.
One right answer thinking limits and confuses english learners.
Effective communication requires flexibility.
While the one right answer mentality train students to be {rigit} and unimaginative.
Connected to this problem is another dangerous part of the hidden curriculum.

Fear of mistakes.
This is the one of most negative and {traumatising} messages taught in school.
How is the fear of mistakes taught?
Through tests and corrections.
In nearly every school all over the world teacher regularly give quizes and tests.
The teacher ask questions and the students must provide the one right answer.
Of course the one right answer is always the teacher's answer.
What happens if the student provides a different answer?
They're panished with the lower score.
Students are smart and they quickly understand that in school mistakes are bad and must be avoided.
They also understand that truth is unimportant and the best way to succeed is to simply give the answer that the teacher wants. (9:01)
Even worse is when a student already feeling nervous tries to speak english with the whole class listening.
They are just learning so of course they will make mistakes.
When the teacher correct this mistakes the student is embarrased and becomes evenn more nervous.
Eventially most students try to avoid speaking english because situation is so painfull.
By a panishing and correcting mistakes school panish risk taking.
Little by little they train students to avoid risk and avoid doing anyting they can't do perfectly.
Yet there is no perfection with english speaking.
Even native speakers make mistakes.
?? We make grammar mistakes we mispronounce words.
We forget wocabulary words.
It doesn't matter because we're focused on communicating not on tests and grades.
Of course the fear of mistakes goes far beyong english class.
After years of school most people learn to avoid risk in most parts of their live.
School trains them to be passive, {rigid}, {timid} and obidient.
This not only hurts your english speaking it also harms your currier and limits you success in all areas of life.
{Forchun} faivours the bold. ??
Thouse who are active flexible and passion it are the once who achieve the greatest success in life. (10:23)
The passive and obidient rarely leave their dreams.
You will make many mistakes as you improve your english speaking.
There's no need to be upset by this.
The truth is most native speakers don't care.
They don't care if you make grammar mistakes.
They just want to communicate with you.
They want to share thoughts, ideas and feelings.
They want to communicate with you as a human beeing.
Not as an english student.
To communicate effectively you must forget the idea of perfection and learn to be flexible.

The dirty secret of english teaching. (11:01)
If the hidden curriculum is so bad why the schools and teachers continue to follow it.
The truth about our education system is that the curriculum exist to benefit to schools not the students.
Teachers use methods because they are easier for the teacher not because they are good for the student.
The hidden curriculum creates passive students, it creates obidient students.
Passive and obidient students are easier to control making life easier for teachers and school administrators.
Textbooks for example make the teachers job much easier.
By using a textbook the teacher doesn't have to plan new lessons for every class.
Planing lessons is hard work. And a textbook makes it much easier.
The teacher can simply follow the textbook with minimum effort.
Many teachers are little more than textbook readers.
Every day they read the texbook to their students slavicially following the lessons.
In my opinion they can barely be called teachers at all perhaps we should call them textbook readers instead.
Another benefit of textbooks for the schools is that they standartise learning.
By using a textbook the school ensures that every english class is learnng exactly the same thing.
School officials like this because it makes testing and ranking students easier.
Schools are like factories.
The both?? is one everything to be the same.
The same is true for tests and grades.
This provide little to no benefit to english learners.
In fact as we've discussed tests and grades increace stress and create a fear of making mistakes. (12:37)
Test and grades are primary cause of english dramma.
On the other hand. Tests and grages are a powerfull tool of controll for teachers.
When students fear bad grades they obey the teacher more.
They learn that the teacher is always right because if they don't agree with the teacher's answer
they are panished with lower scores.
Grades are a means of ranking students.
Most teachers and administrators are focused on ranking students rather than helping all succeed.
In many schools the official policy is that a certain percentage of students in every class
must get poor grades, a certain percentage must get medium level grades and only a small percentage
can be giving excellent grades.(13:21)
