Chapter 1 (one)
A better way to learn English

If you've picked up this book chances are you've wanted to speak English {for a while}.
May be you've even taking classes. You probably need English to improve your career.
May be you want to travel internationally or study {abroad}.
You know the English is the key to international business and international travel.
So let me ask you something. Do you feel nervous or {shy} when you try to speak English?
Do you still {struggle} to understand what some one is saying to you despite years of study?
Are you {embarrassed} about your pronunciation or worried you speak too slowly?
Are you {frustrated} that despite all the time you've invested in learning English you still can't speak it?
Despite your goals is it difficult for you to {actually} use English in your job, travels or studies?
Do you some times feel that you'll never {master} spoken English?
If you answered "Yes" to any of this questions you are not alone.
In fact you're fairly typical. (1:16)

Most English students feel this way.
Most adult English learners are stressed and frustrated about their speaking ability.
Some feel completely {hopeless} and feel they'll never be able to speak English powerfully.
Not because they are bad at languages, but because like you they've been taught using the wrong methods.
The good thing is that it doesn't have to be like this.
There is nothing wrong with you. You can learn to speak English naturally and with {ease}.
You can use English effectively in your job, travels and studies.
You can feel relaxed and confident every time you speak English.
In fact as a long time English teacher I've helped thousands of students all over the world become fluent and powerful English speakers.
How did I do it? I did it using a teaching method I developed called effortless English.
Effortless English enables you to learn English naturally and automatically. The way children learn before they enter school.
Too often English classes get so focused on tests, textbooks, grades and levels.
Students forget why they are there {in the first place}.
They forget about the real world goals of a more successful career and exciting international travel.
With effortless English you never loose sided the fact that the ultimate goal of learning a language is communication.
Instead you learn to speak English both quickly and with more {precision}.

Effortless? I understand if you skeptical.
Particularly if you've been trying to learn English the traditional way.
You've put in the hours.
Memorizing vocabulary lists, doing grammar {drills}, reading boring textbooks.
How you thinking can speaking English possibly be effortless.
Believe me I feel your pain.
Back when I started teaching fifteen years ago.
My students were all excited to begin {conversing} in English.
And I was excited to help them.
At that time I taught in the usual way.
I use textbooks and I focused on teaching grammar.
I thought this was the best way to teach and none of my students can {plaint}.

I still remember one particularly intelligent student of mine from Venezuela named Gladess. (3:42)
Gladess was {determine} to speak English  well.
Talk about effort. Gladess attended every one of my classes.
She always set in the center of the front row.
I can still picture her {eager} and smiling face.
She took detailed notes.
She listened to every word I sad.
She also studied at home.
Every day Gladess studied her English textbooks for four hours or more.
She also try to learn 50 new vocabulary words by memorizing word lists.
Gladess was my star student.
And I too was sure she would succeed.
6 months later however she still could {barely} speak English.
Her speech was {hesitant} and unnatural.
She constantly make grammar mistakes with even the simplest sentences.
Her pronunciation was difficult to understand.
She still thought in Spanish and {try to translate two and from English} when she spoke.
First of all Gladess felt nervous every time she try to speak English.
Speaking English was a painful experience for her.
Gladess was extremely frustrated.
After so much effort she had barely improved.
As her teacher I too was frustrated.
I was sure Gladess would improve quickly and couldn't understand why she had not. (5:03)

I followed all of the traditional teaching methods.
I used the standards textbooks and the standard classroom activities.
Gladess was intelligent, disciplined and {consistent} and yet her English speaking barely improved.
Sadly I {realize} the Gladess wasn't the only one who had not improved.
Her classmates also had barely improved.
It was frustrating and I felt like a complete failure as a teacher.
But when I asked my colleagues for help it turned out they had the same problem.
Very few of their students {were improving either}.
At that point I realizing something was wrong, something is wrong with standard methods for teaching English.
The worst part for me was that every one accepted this situation as normal.
The other teachers didn't seen to be {concerned} about their students {lack} of progress.
All the teachers were using the same methods and getting the same poor results. (6:02)

In most parts of the world students study English in school for years.
Yet the {vast} majority of them never learn to speak English well.
After years of study they still have trouble with real English conversations.
They still feel nervous and shy about speaking.
A few year after my experience with Gladess I got a job as an english teaching assistant in Japan.
I was excited and eager to help this young students learn my language.
I still remember my first day. (6:36)

I was sitting at the front of the class next to the main teacher who was Japanese.
As the students came into the room they saw me and giggled nervously.
They sat down and continued to {shyly glace} up at me.
They were {sweet} and {curious}.
Then the class started.
The main teacher wrote an English sentence on the board.
I don't remember the exact sentence but it was something like 'the little girl goes to school'.
The teacher pointed to the sentence and began to talk in Japanese.
The students all grab their notebooks and began writing.
Every one was very serious.
Next the teacher circled the word 'goes'.
She pointed at the word and continued speaking in Japanese.
She talked and talked and talked... in Japanese.
The students wrote quickly, filling their notebooks with information.
Finally the teacher drew line from the word 'goes' to the word 'girl'.
And then she talked more. On and on and on.. in Japanese.
This continued for the entire class.
The teacher drew lines, circles and squares.
She used different color {chalk}. And she continued speaking Japanese.
I was totally confused.
I'm a native speaker of English and I was sitting in a beginning English class {yet} I could not understand anything in the class except for that one sentence.
I was thinking to myself: 'What could this teacher possibly be talking about so much!? It's just one sentence..'
Yet the teacher spent an entire hour analyzing, explaining and {dissecting} that one simple sentence.
Finally at the end of a class the teacher ask me to read the sentence aloud for pronunciation.
I read the sentence a couple of times.
And that was the only real English input the students got that day.
Sadly this same pattern repeated every day.
Day by day I watched the students enthusiasm and curiosity disappear.
They became bored, the became stressed and confused.
Every day they wrote pages of notes mostly in Japanese.
Every day the teacher talked and talked and talked mostly in Japanese.
I couldn't understand why an English class was being taught mostly in Japanese.
During the {average} class the students were listening the Japanese ninety percent of the time or more.
They heard very little English.
{No wonder} they never learned to speak, no wonder the were frustrated and confused.
{Honestly} it broke my heart to watch as the school crush to this students natural love of learning.
It was terrible to watch them {grow bored}, frustrated and stressed.
And six months later none of this students could speak to me at all.
Not even the simplest conversation.
This kind of situation is repeated in English classes all over the world. (9:51)

My experiences with Gladess and in Japan {convinced} me that traditional English language education is broken.
I knew there had to be a better way to help my students speak English then what we were doing.
So I begin to search for a better way.
I {devour} books about English teaching.
I constantly tried out new methods in my classes.
I read research studies.
I traveled and {taught} English in other parts of the world.
What surprise me was how little the actual research supported traditional teaching methods.
As {emanate} university of {southern} California linguist Steven Crash are noted: 'We {acquire} language when we understand what people tell us and what we read. There is no need for {deliberate} memorization.'
If most of its?? knew intuitively that the best way to learn English was naturally.
I wondered why are so many teachers and students still choosing to use unnatural ineffective and old methods of teaching? (10:53)

Eventually I went back to school and got a master's degree in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages).
{A long the way} I did more research and discovered the incredible new methods that would become the bases for the effortless English program.
I also did my own informal research.
I search for excellent English speakers who had learned the language as an adult.
Whenever I found such a person I interview them.
Over time I noticed patterns.
Most of this successful speakers were independent students who mastered spoken English outside of school.
Most of them used similar methods.
The very same methods supported by my master's research.
Most avoided the traditional methods used in most schools.
I change my teaching.
And when I use this new strategies in classes my students improved quickly.
I couldn't believe it!
They finally learn to speak easily and powerfully.
And even better they were enjoying themselves.
After years of searching and experimentation I had finally found methods that worked. (12:00)

Effortless English today.
Over the years I've continued to test and adapt this methods and develop the effortless English system.
I've organized the program to include seven {essential} rules for learning English.
Which have lead countless students to fluency.
To build on the success of my classes I created audio courses and began offering them online to English students around the world.
My audio lessons are currently best sellers in 25 countries.
In addition {I founded} the effortless English club to create an international English learning community where students can communicate with other members.
I wanted to create an environment that {encourage} confidence and success with English.
Because so many learners struggle with nervousness, shyness, frustration and fear when speaking.
In fact for many people this negative emotions are the worst part of speaking English.
In our effortless English club students are able to interact on our forums and speak with each other online.
It is an extremely positive and encouraging community.
Where everyone is free to play with English, make mistakes and communicate without fear.
In my opinion we had the best members in the world.
Every one of our members is focused not only on their own success but also on?? helping other members achieve success too.
The result is a supportive family of learners and international leaders. (13:30)

This book is another resource for students looking to speak English powerfully and fluently.
It is designed to guide you on the road to fluency to speed your journey to confident, powerful and effortless speaking.
In this book you will learn how to reprogram your negative emotions about English develop confidence when speaking and follow a powerful and effective road to fluency.
You'll also learn how to use English to improve your carrier and achieve the success you want.
Over the next several chapters I will describe the effortless English system in detail.
Explain the philosophy behind it and tell you why both the psychology and method are important for learning language.
I also tell you exactly how to use the system to reach your goals.
Join me and enjoy the journey.
You really have nothing to fear by leaving the old education system behind.
So let go of the {pressure}, the stress, the fear and the {boredom}.
I promise you this natural learning system is fun, friendly and energetic.
The opposite of most school classrooms.
There is no pressure just friendly encouragement and support.
Trust me. I've helped students every where in the world.
And now I'm eager to help you.
I promise I will always do my best to help you speak excellent English.
